Hello everyone and welcome to the data frame's overview lecture.
This is going to be our very first lecture we actually get started with programming with data frame
spark and Skala.
Let's go ahead and jump to the Adam text editor but I want you to do is actually find the folder Sparke
data frames from the download for this course and then add that as a project folder.
If you haven't done so already let's go ahead and jump to the editor now.
OK here I am at Adam text editor.
Now you may be wondering why haven't we gone to a full idea yet for already working a spark and data
frames.
You can jump to a full ID such as the Skala the eclipse or intelligent.
Right now I think you'll still maximize your learning if you use a simple text editor and really force
yourself to type out every single command.
So we're going to stick with text editors maximize our learning regardless if it's a maybe a little
more difficult than using a fool either.
So just keep that in mind.
You can use whatever you want but I'm going to stick with the text editor right now for this section
of the course.
OK.
Hopefully you went ahead and added spark data frames as a project folder.
You can see here that there's a data frame underscore overview that Skala script I have open right here.
This is the script there we're actually going to be working through and explaining and we're going to
just show you some very basic operations you can perform on a data frame.
Let's go ahead and start a new file.
So the right click on sparc data frames say new file.
I'm going to call it something short like DFA Scala.
OK so let's go ahead and start with a simple Sparke session.
So Sparke session is what you're going to use when you're working if Sparke data frames and you can
grab it by saying import or apache not SPARC that sequel and then Sparke session OK and then we're going
to go ahead and say vow of SPARC is equal to spark session and then we'll say builder close print sees
gets or creates and that will either get the current Spark's session or actually create one.
Now there's a lot more options you can add here on the spark session such as telling how many course
you want to use or give it an application name.
Right now we're just keeping things simple so we're going to just focus line by line and actually creating
values.
We're not going to do anything fancy like create a whole function or an object just line by line to
hopefully maximize our learning or actually work.
These data frames.
So you can create data frame from a spark session.
Remember this is known as a class data set.
So when you're looking at that documentation link from the previous lecture you may be a little computer
that says data set.
There is a set of data frames remember a data frame is just a data set organized with column names.
So we're going to go ahead and say Valdai Yeff and then I'm going to go ahead and say spark that read
and then I can say CXXVI and pasan a CSFB file.
So right now we're just working off simple CSP files since we're just dealing on a local computer.
Later on we're going to have a whole lecture on data input and output because big data sets usually
have very particular file formats.
Right now we're dealing everything locally.
So a very simple format to use ESV.
It's also a very common format for data to become or be shipped in.
So what we're going to do is work with this Citigroup 2006 2008.
Now this is basically stock information for Citigroup from the year 2006 2008.
So has some interesting trends in it.
We're going to be working with this dataset throughout the section of the course.
But basically this is from the financial crisis and Citigroup had a big dive.
So it's kind of an interesting data set to work with.
We'll go ahead and say read that CSB.
Citigroup 2006 underscore 2008 and the way I saved that here doesn't actually have the dot CACP file
extensions so keep that in mind.
Let's go ahead and just show you how you can print out the first five rows.
So if you want to print out the first five rows of a data frame you can use the head method for that.
And then you just passen how many rows you want to print.
So in this case we'll say DFA head kilts go ahead and open up a terminal to actually run this simple
script in a click right here plus and then what I'm going to do since my fonts a little larger than
probably what you're using to actually see the full displays in them to grab this and try to expand
the terminal as large as I can.
And under-sea Sparke I have my programs etc. The sparked data frame's folder and I'm going to go ahead
and say Sparke bash shell enter and that way we get the interactive Skoll environment that we can just
call simple scripts from.
So again we're going to say Spark's session build or create that session and read this that see a c
file.
So let's go ahead and say colon load and say DFT DFT scholar and then enter is going to go and import
Sparke session and then you may see some warnings here.
But don't worry about that depending on whether or not you turned off warnings.
You'll see him or not see him but let's go in and see the results here.
So here we can see that we have a data frame from that the variable value there and it say this is the
data type it is or that Apache that sparked that sequel that data frame and then it has.
You'll notice underscore 0 string underscore C-One street etc. and for more fields.
This is basically Spark's most default way of telling you this is the zero column.
This is the one column and the data type that I expect in the 0 column are strings by default Sparke
data is going to teach every treat everything as a string.
You'll notice here when we say DFA ahead we actually get to see in array output of a single row or a
single rows I should say depending on what value you put in here for head here I can see that the array
contains this information.
It's a date in open price a high price a low price for that day the closing price and then the volume
of stock traded for that day.
And right now this looks a little strange as far as the actual formatting.
So let's go ahead and try to print each of these lines.
So we're going to go ahead and write a little bit of a simple script here.
I'll say for wine.
And then Simon operator DFI head five I'm going to go ahead and then say Prince L.N. and then print
line.
Actually a better term for this sort of line will go in and say Roche.
So it's a little more clear.
It says line in your notes but Rose maybe a little more clear than that.
And let's go ahead and not just showed the head but actually print out every row in that that should
actually format this a little nicer.
So if we say load that the Skala here this is a nice printing format.
Every row in that array objects.
They open high low close volume and we can see that we have the dates and then some high price low price
et cetera and the volume of stock trading.
Now we have an issue here and that's that spark data frame and spark itself thinks that all of these
are strings and if one thinks that this date here is a string itself spark can actually infer the schema
based off of the objects or elements inside of their data source.
Let's go ahead and show you how you can do that and set options when you're reading in data sources.
We're going to have a lot more this when we actually go over various data inputs and outputs in a lecture
later on.
But right now we're dealing with simple CXXVI files.
So it's going to show you how you can add options to spark that read which you do say spark that read
and then clarify option and then you pass in two arguments here you pass the option the actual name
of that option and then you say comma and whether you want a certain number there or you want a boolean
value whatever happens to go if that option you pass it in and you pass these both in as strings suddenly
pass in for the header option comma.
I'm going to say true and what that is going to do is actually treat this very first row here as the
header.
So instead of actually saying underscore zero for the first column and then see one for the second column.
It's actually going to say oh the first row is the actual column name.
So instead of this default it should be dates and instead of this column it should be open.
So let's go ahead and make sure you have a dot there.
We're going to go ahead and run that and see if that makes a difference for us.
OK.
And it really does.
You can see now that the first row is just pure information and that Hetter has actually been made the
column name.
So you can see dates is a string open as a string etc..
Now open is not actually a string it's a double.
It looks like it's 490 point zero on that very first day.
Let's go ahead and add a new option in so we can say option dot and then we're going to go ahead and
say this option is called in first schema and you want this to be true.
Now I'm going to say that the letter is true and in first Kema is true and I'm going to look to make
sure that these sort of things change.
Let's go in and say control s to save that up on your arrow key in the terminal and then go ahead and
load that simple script again.
And if I expand this a little bit just to see the results I can see here.
Now the date is type time stamp open as a double acceptor and have four more fields.
So these two options are going to be really useful when you're working with and reading CACP data.
Now as a quick no go ahead and check out the data from overview lecture.
We go ahead and scroll up here.
There's a link to the API notes and you can go ahead and visit all the various options that you can
say when you're reading in data.
But we'll go over those in much more detail when we actually talk about data input output.
OK.
So we learn the very basics that actually read in a CSP file and display some of the information off
of it.
Let me show you just a few more useful methods.
You're going to want to know when working of a data frame.
We talked about head.
Now we actually showed you how you could print every row as far as wanting to see it with something
you actually want to get the column names.
For instance here I see that I have four more fields.
Let's actually explore what those fields are.
So I'm going to call DMF dot columns and if I save it and run that I can go ahead and see that my columns.
Is this array.
So it's an array of data.
Open High Low close and volume and these are all string names.
So now that I have these columns it can actually use those and select particular columns from the data
frame.
All right.
Now let's go ahead and walk through just a few more useful operations he can do on a data frame.
If you already worked with data frames in a language such as are or with Python and pandas you're probably
familiar with the describe operation or method on a data frame which shows you some basic statistical
information for numerical columns and you can just do that with describe off your data frame and then
to actually see the results.
We're going to go ahead and say show.
So let me clear this console with control and then I'm going to go ahead and save this script and run
it.
So now you should see actually pace of this.
So keep in mind this DFA is actually stored in memory here in the Skala.
Let me actually run the scripts loads of Skala then I can see everything.
All right.
So my Faunce a little large if you wanted to you could print row by row like we'd done earlier for this
data frame but here you can see that there's a summary it goes goes ahead and gives you a count a mean
a standard deviation and min and max of all numerical columns.
So here I can see as far as the counts.
They should all be the same there's 750 five rows in this data frame so I can see that fifty 755 open
high etc..
The mean of the open the high of the open standard deviation min max.
So that's a really useful method if you didn't fill out the numerical data
now as you just saw when I accidentally wrote a line appear or this line right here and so the consul
DMF I can actually say F dot and say describe not show directly into this terminal and it'll still work.
So we're going to go ahead and do now sort of constantly editing the script.
Just play around the data frame here directly and score since it's actually saved in memory as an object
going to show you how you can actually select a column.
So to select the column you actually just say Deia dot selects.
Then you pass in the column name.
For instance let's say I wanted volume.
I'll go ahead and pass that.
And if you're looking at the text editor you'll get helpful syntax highlighting here.
So if I go go ahead and type this here just to show what that would look like.
I can say selects and then a volume so that's a string but we're not going to do this straight into
the terminal just to kind of play around that a little more.
The more hands on it will say show to actually show that result.
And if you have a lot of or a really large data frame which you will because you're working of spark
because you have large data it's only going to show the top 20 rows if you order something with a lot
of rows back.
So here we can actually select the single column FTF that select pass in the column names a string and
say that show if you want to select multiple columns that's easy too.
You can just say DMF dot select.
And then here you're going to use that sort of dollar sign notation on the string class and the string
name.
So you want it to select the dates comma and then you're going to say dollar sign whatever other column
names you want for instance close comma.
In other column name if you want it.
So if I just want to select these two columns I can say that show and it's going to show me only the
top 20 rows of this.
Here's the date column and here's the close and know how the date now since it's a time stamp since
I said in first schema actually has that full time statement affirmation.
Now we actually have a whole lecture on how to deal time stamp information of data frames.
So if you're interested in that sort of thing just keep that in mind as we continue on through this
section of the course.
But that's how you can select multiple columns you just need to add in the dollar sign.
Now let's go ahead and show you how you can create new columns in is it do this.
I'm actually going to now come back to this script.
So to create new columns used to command decaff dots and then you say with column so you say with column
in the first three passen as a string is the name of the new column you want.
So in this case let's say I want a high plus low to be them I call them and then I'm going to go ahead
and pass and the column names I want.
So I will say DMF of high plus DMF of low
and this is just a quick way to actually create a new column based off of old columns so you put in
DFA that with Kollin the name of the new column you wants and then based off some sort of formula.
The old columns and then whatever operations you want to do you can actually call columns singular columns
the same way here.
So I know I showed you select this the more formal method of doing this but if I scroll back down here
I could also say DMF hi and that will return back that actual column objects.
So it doesn't actually show the column itself.
It actually grabs and saves as a result that actual column there.
And it says here's a column.
It's the high column from the high.
So then you can perform operations of those columns and then say DFA with column and it'll show that.
Now usually when you're doing this you're going to kind of say this is a new data frame so say thou
DFI to DFA with column have a new column here it's the high price plus the low price.
Now financially speaking that doesn't really make any sense as far as what this operation represents.
But go ahead it kind of play along with this just so you can learn how to use with column.
And then I'm going to go ahead and say the two and I'm going to print the schema of this just so we
can see that new column.
So let's go ahead and save that.
And then at points you clear this and actually lower DFT Scala run this.
And here we can see that we have a new column at typeless low.
It knows that it's a double since these two are doubles right here.
And it went ahead and created a new column and again you do that with the dot with column and we'll
see some more examples of that later on this section of the course.
And the very last thing I want to show you is how to rename it column.
So if you want to rename a column you can just say the as method so DMF to in this case let's go ahead
and say I plus low and you can say Dot as HPL.
So instead of just saying hi plus say HBL for high plus low this stop as is probably familiar to you
if you use sequel.
It's kind of like an alias for this column.
And we'll go ahead and say then we can actually reference this using a select method so I can say something
like if two selects select the high plus slow column as HPL and then go ahead and show this.
So it's make sure that all worked out well run our script here and here I can see the top 20 rows of
this new HPL column which is just renaming the high plus low.
So it's just an alias for this column.
If I wanted to I couldn't put in a comma here and say DFA to close.
And this is kind of showing you another way to select multiple columns.
You can either use that dollar sign notation or use the F 2 or D F and then the name of the column itself.
So if you're going to run this I can see that I'll get these two columns back.
All right.
That's all there is for now.
We're going to learn a lot more about basic functions and operations.
The very next lecture feel free to post any questions.
The Kewney forums and make sure you actually review this data frame underscore overview Skala script
before moving on to the next lecture.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.